Department of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science, CSE-Cyber Security, Data Science
Welcome to the Department of CSE-(CyS, DS) and AI&DS. This department is established in 2020 with the DS and CyS B.Tech. program with the intake of 120 and 60 respectively and in the year 2021 started with the AI & DS B.Tech. program with a intake of 60. This department is dedicated to explore the fascinating fields of Data Science, AI, and Cyber Security issues equipping the students with the knowledge and skills to excel in these rapidly evolving domains.

B.Tech. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence and Data Science programme kick-starts, in our college with a vision to build the intellectual capital of the society through research-based education, creating new knowledge and innovations. The department offers a comprehensive curriculum through a combination of lectures, hands-on projects, and experiential learning opportunities. We strive to cultivate a deep understanding of the principles and techniques underlying the current technologies. It boasts a team of highly qualified and experienced faculty members who are experts in their respective areas. They are dedicated to imparting knowledge, mentoring students, and staying updated with the latest advancements in the field. The Department provides internships, real-world projects, and networking events. Students gain invaluable industry exposure and insights into the practical applications to enhancing their employability. The department is involved in pioneering research and supports research activities both for teachers and students. We promote a culture of innovation, encouraging students and faculty members to explore new ideas, conduct research projects, and publish their findings in reputable journals and conferences and explore themselves in cutting-edge technologies like Image Processing, Augmented Reality, Data Analytics, Cyber Forensic, Malware analysis etc. All the activities are conducted in association with different clubs like VJ DATA QUESTERS, VJ GARUDA VIGILENCE, VJ HACKSLASH AND VJ CREATINAI CLUBS

Vision
To produce engineers with in-depth technical knowledge and ethical values.

To incorporate ingeniousness and self- driven capabilities to the students in the fields of mezzanine technologies.

To nurture the ecosystem of Innovation, Research and Development through an integrated teaching-learning environment for faculty and students.

Mission
Offer diverse curriculum in line with industry, professional and research bodies.

Provide project-based learning environment for developing diverse practical capabilities.

Offer advanced trainings to enable process skills and competencies.