Department of CSE-AIML , IoT & Robotics and AI
At the core of this department, lies Artificial Intelligence (AI), the driving force behind groundbreaking breakthroughs in various fields. The department's relentless pursuit of AI excellence unlocks the potential to unravel complex problems and improve the efficiencies of the students to meet the industry needs. The department's expertise in machine learning drives the development of robust and adaptable models, empowering the students to unlock the untapped potential from various data assets. In synergy with AI and machine learning, the department embraces the transformative potential of the Internet of Things (IoT), which interconnects a myriad of devices, sensors, and systems. By seamlessly integrating the physical and digital worlds, IoT creates an intricate network of intelligent endpoints that generate a vast ocean of data. The department guides the students to harness the data generated through various devices, sensors and also work on real time datasets to unlock the new possibilities facilitating intelligent decision-making. The students are encouraged to work on real-time monitoring projects across diverse domains.

Vision
To emerge as an epicenter having transformative impact in the education and research of Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning and Internet of Things with an ecosystem that contributes to the society through innovativeness and creativeness.

Mission
M1: To Impart innovative teaching and learning methodologies to generate knowledge through the state-of-the-art concepts and technologies in AI-ML and IoT with personal and professional responsibilities and commitment to lifelong learning with societal aspirations.

M2: To produce successful Computer Science and Engineering graduates with a specialization in AI-ML and IoT.

M3: To establish centers of excellence in leading areas of AI-ML and IoT in collaboration with industry to uplift innovative research and development.

Department of CSE- AIML & IoT strives to create an ecosystem that not only excels in education and research but also actively contributes to the society through innovation and creativity. The primary goal is to pursuit excellence in education and research by creating solutions that address global challenges. The faculty members within the department are highly skilled and well-versed in their respective fields, acting as valuable resources in seminars, faculty development programs, conferences and delivering invited talks. With certifications in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning from renowned institutions such as IIIT Hyderabad, they bring a wealth of expertise to the table. By staying up to date on the latest trends and developments, they ensure that their teaching methodologies and curriculum remain relevant and aligned with industry standards. The faculty's commitment to continuous learning and professional development enables them to provide the students with valuable exposure to real-world scenarios and industry best practices, bridging the gap between academia and industry.

In summary, our department is driven by a motto that prioritizes experiential learning through hands-on training, course-based projects, interdisciplinary projects, research projects and summer internships. By integrating experiential learning into our curriculum, students gain valuable practical skills that complement their theoretical knowledge. The interdisciplinary environment fosters an exchange of ideas, promotes collaboration, and nurtures a culture of continuous learning, ensuring that the department remains at the forefront of global AI and IoT advancements.