Department of Automobile Engineering
The department of Automobile Engineering commenced with an undergraduate programme in the year 2010 keeping itself up-to-date with the latest developments in the field with a dedicated team of highly qualified and experienced faculty in various streams of Automobile Engineering, the department consistently strives to provide world-class facilities for Education, Entrepreneurship and Research. The department has laboratories with modern and state-of-the-art equipment, well-furnished seminar hall and a library with a collection of various journals, magazines and books.

The department MoU with a number of Industries through faculty research, Guest Lectures, Internships, Training and collaborative projects. Industry training and identifying industry relevant problems for research is a special characteristic of the programme offered by the department. Faculty members are continually publishing the results of their research work as technical papers in international and national journals and conferences. The department trains the students to meet the technological challenges and diverse needs of the industry and society in various areas of automobile engineering and equips them to excel in a truly competitive industry.

The Department has dedicated SAE laboratory facility known as SAE VNRVJIET. The Students from II, III and IV years fabricate the on road/off road racing vehicles, for participating in competitions like SAE BAJA, SUPRA and various National/International competitions. The students gain Knowledge through Fabrication, Assembly, testing of these vehicles, which makes them industry ready. The major projects are done in various modern Automotive domains like Driverless vehicles, Electric vehicles, Hybrid vehicles, Fuel cell vehicles, Composites, 3D Printing, ADAS, Design, CAD/CAM/CAE and many more.

Vision
To become and be one of the elite technical institutes acclaimed by the peers and industry with world class technical education, contemporary teaching facility and state-of-the-art laboratories to suit global standards.

Mission
Provide engineering education with highest learning standards for designing and manufacturing of world class automobiles. Foster research, evolve innovative applications of state-of-the-art automotive technology, promote entrepreneurship, and ultimately mould young men and women by inculcating ethical leadership qualities for the benefit of the society.