Department of Civil Engineering
The department has well qualified, experienced and dedicated faculty for teaching, research and consultancy works. The department has a rich ambience of spacious and ICT facilities provided classrooms and laboratories which is conducive for learning and training. To promote academic and research cognizance among faculty, staff and students, the department is actively involved in organizing Seminars/Symposia/Workshops. The department has also conducted two International conferences and four National conferences in various domains of Civil Engineering. It should be mentioned that very good academic environment and the meticulous efforts of faculty and supporting staff have enabled the students to bring laurels to the department and institute by participating in various professional events in reputed Institutions. In Placements front, the number of students from the Civil Engineering department, who got placed, has surpassed the number from several other institutes.

The department relentlessly promotes research and consultancy. The main areas of research include Structural Engineering, Geo-Technical Engineering, Highway Engineering and Water Resources Engineering. The Department regularly receives sponsored project grants from AICTE, UGC, DST and other research organizations. The department also offers various consultancy works to government and private organizations. The Department is accorded with a recognition as third party by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) for testing, checking designs and certification.

Vision
To develop Civil Engineering Department as a Centre of excellence for imparting value-based education to the students at under-graduate and post-graduate level to meet industry needs and to develop as a major research center meeting national and international standards.

Mission
To impart in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of Civil Engineering concepts with focus on character enhancement, leadership qualities, effective communication, social responsibility and pursuit of lifelong learning and professional development.

To provide a platform to the students to engage in original innovative research.