Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering
The department was established in 1995 with recognition from AICTE-New Delhi and Affiliation from JNTUH. The department is offering one UG programme in B. Tech- Electronics and Communication Engineering with an intake of 240, 2 -Post Graduate (PG) Programmes in M. Tech-VLSI System Design and M. Tech-Embedded Systems with an intake of 18 each and also offering Ph.D Programme. UG programme is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). The department is recognized by AICTE and JNTUH as a “Research Centre”.

The department has 62 well experienced and qualified teaching faculty out of which 39 are with Ph. D, 23 are pursuing Ph.D and remaining are with M.Tech and, also 10 experienced non-teaching staff. Faculty are with expertise in various domains like Embedded & IoT, VLSI, Signal Processing and Communication, etc.

The department has 15 well-equipped state-of-art laboratories used for academic and Research purpose. It includes the Centre of Excellence and Research Laboratories like RFID and WSN Lab and Mobile Vision Lab. Laboratories are equipped with latest software tools like MATLAB, HFSS, Synopsys, Xilinx ISE and hardware equipment like mobile station, RF signal generator, Spectrum analyzers, industry compatible FPGAs and PCB printer etc. Department has an exclusive Departmental library with around 1000 Volumes and consisting of e-Learning resources like NPTEL. All the class rooms of the department are well equipped with ICT tools like LCD Projector and Audio Video equipment. Digital class room facility is also available in the department.

Department conducts various hands-on training Programmes, certification courses to all the students starting from 1st year in core technologies in addition to coding skills training. All the students are encouraged to enrol the courses related to emerging technologies offered by the NPTEL (Swayam), Coursera and other online platforms. Department encourages the students to visit core industries in and around Hyderabad to get exposure in cutting edge technologies being implementing in industries.

All B.Tech and M.Tech students are provided with Campus Recruitment Training at various phases during their study of programme, as a result students placed in topmost companies like Google, Amazon, Synopsys, Qualcomm, TCS, JP Morgan, Deloitte, F5 Networks etc. with a highest package of 40 Lakhs for this academic year of 2024-25. Students are encouraged to publish research papers. Many of our alumni pursued M.Tech and Ph. D from IITs, NITs and from top foreign universities. They are working in various reputed positions in multi-national companies and some of the students have started their own start-ups. All the students of the department are actively involving in the activities of professional societies and various cultural and technical clubs of the institute.

Our Faculty are actively carry out research in various domains, which resulted in 41 funding projects worth around Rs. 5.83 crores from several funding agencies like DRDO, UGC, AICTE, DST, ITRA, etc. and Published 37 patents. We also have 340 publications in Web of Science, SCI and Scopus journals/conferences during last three years. Department is entered have undersigned 21 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with various industries and universities like Lemon Flip solutions Pvt Ltd., Synopsys, sumedha IT, Ananth Technologies, ICOMM, NIT Raipur, BITS Hyderabad campus, NIT warangal etc. All faculty members actively participate in various professional societies like IEEE, ISTE, & IETE. Most of our faculty and students are proactive in attending workshops, conferences and have received various awards and scholarships.

Vision
A resource centre of academic excellence for imparting technical education with high pattern of discipline through dedicated staff which shall set global standards, making National and International students technologically superior and ethically strong, who in turn shall improve the quality of life.

Mission
To provide quality education in the domain of Electronics and Communication Engineering through effective learner centric process.

To provide industry specific best of breed laboratory facilities beyond curriculum to promote diverse collaborative research for meeting the changing industrial and societal needs.