Department of Electronics Instrumentation Engineering
The Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE) was established with B.Tech in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE) during the academic year 1999-2000 with an intake of 60 and has been enhanced to 120 during the academic year 2011-2012. Furthermore, M.Tech in Electronics and Instrumentation (E&I) was started during the academic year 2010-2011 with the approval of AICTE and JNTUH. BTech EIE students are eligible to opt for Minor Degree in AI-ML, Data Science, Cyber Security and Entrepreneurship. Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering is a multi-disciplinary branch focusing on electronics, measurement, control and automation in the fields viz. the Electrical, Electronics, Manufacturing, Process Control, Chemical, Pharmaceutical, Food & Agricultural Processing, Bio-Medical, Power Generation etc.

Application of modern instrumentation techniques greatly enhances the Productivity, Quality, Reliability of the Products, with improved Stability, Safety and Optimization of Resources. All the major R&D organizations like DRDO, ISRO, BARC, NRSC etc. require the services of talented young instrumentation engineers for all their R&D activities involving highly sophisticated instrumentation systems, for all their R&D activities involving highly sophisticated instrumentation systems.

The department of EIE is significant for its well-experienced Faculty and well-established state-of-the-art laboratories that reflect Virtual Industries. The faculty strength is 28 with 13 PhDs, 15 pursuing PhD . Faculty has Expertise in the domains of Process Control Instrumentation, Automation, Signal and Image processing, Bio-medical Instrumentation, Embedded Systems, Internet of Things, Robotics, Machine Learning and AI. Also Programming in C, Python, R , Matlab and LabVIEW.

All the Faculty are grouped into their respective Research Interest Groups/domains. Faculty have published 197 technical articles in various international Journals and Conference proceedings in the past 5 years. Department Faculty has a total of 10 patents filed/published/granted.The Department has 7 research project grants worth Rs 43.57 lakhs, and all are completed. The Department has 2 grants for organizing Seminars and STTP is worth Rs. 2.92 Lakhs.

Training programs are organized to the students to update their knowledge with advanced technology and increase employability. Students are eligible for IT and Core campus placements and can choose PSUs through GATE.

ISOI Student Chapter of VNRVJIET was established in the year 2003, 460 student members and all the faculty members are life members of ISOI .10 faculty members are members of the prestigious professional society IEEE. Few faculty members are members of ISTE and IETE professional chapters.

Vision
To be a Resource Centre of Academic Excellence for imparting Quality Technical Education, meeting the need of students at National and International levels and imbibing Strong Ethical Values, to improve the Standards of Society.

Mission
To impart Quality Education in the domain of Electronics and Instrumentation

Engineering through effective Learner-centric Process.

To provide Industry-Specific best-of-the-breed Laboratory Facilities beyond.

Curriculum, and promote diverse Collaborative Research for meeting the changing.